https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-22479 Adv cluster arch [WIP] (#8346)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/cluster_lifecycle/config_proxy_hub_managed.adoc

[#config-proxy-hub-cluster]
= Configuring the proxy between hub cluster and managed cluster

To register a managed cluster to your {mce} hub cluster, you need to transport the managed cluster to your {mce-short} hub cluster. Sometimes your managed cluster cannot directly reach your {mce-short} hub cluster. In this instance, configure the proxy settings to allow the communications from the managed cluster to access the {mce-short} hub cluster through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server.

For example, the {mce-short} hub cluster is in a public cloud, and the managed cluster is in a private cloud environment behind firewalls. The communications out of the private cloud can only go through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server. 

.Prerequisites

- You have a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server running that supports HTTP tunnels. For example, HTTP connect method. 
- You have a manged cluster that can reach the HTTP or HTTPS proxy server, and the proxy server can access the {mce-short} hub cluster. 

Complete the following steps to configure the proxy settings between hub cluster and managed cluster:

. Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with proxy settings. 
.. See the following configuration with HTTP proxy:
+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: This format is off a bit.

Author: Fixed

----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: http-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "http://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>" 
----
+ 
.. See the following configuration with HTTPS proxy:  
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: https-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "https://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>"
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: "proxy-ca-bundle"
      caBundle:
        name: <configmap-name>
        namespace: <configmap-namespace>
----
+ 

> *Note:* A CA bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. It refers to a ConfigMap containing one or multiple CA certificates. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* A certificate authority (CA) bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. The CA bundle refers to a ConfigMap that contains one or multiple CA certificates. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command:
```

Reviewer: double check config map standard if you have not already.

> [#config-proxy-hub-cluster]

Reviewer 2: to be consistent
```suggestion
[#config-proxy-hub-managed]
```

= Configuring the proxy between hub cluster and managed cluster

To register a managed cluster to your {mce} hub cluster, you need to transport the managed cluster to your {mce-short} hub cluster. Sometimes your managed cluster cannot directly reach your {mce-short} hub cluster. In this instance, configure the proxy settings to allow the communications from the managed cluster to access the {mce-short} hub cluster through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server.

> For example, the {mce-short} hub cluster is in a public cloud, and the managed cluster is in a private cloud environment behind firewalls. The communications out of the private cloud can only go through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server. 

Reviewer 2: Consider this rewrite to remove directional language, "behind"
```suggestion
For example, the {mce-short} hub cluster is in a public cloud, and the managed cluster is in a private cloud environment within a firewall-protected network. The communications out of the private cloud can only go through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server. 
```

.Prerequisites

> - You have a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server running that supports HTTP tunnels. For example, HTTP connect method. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have an active HTTP or HTTPS proxy server that supports HTTP tunnels. For example, HTTP connect method. 
```

- You have a manged cluster that can reach the HTTP or HTTPS proxy server, and the proxy server can access the {mce-short} hub cluster. 

> Complete the following steps to configure the proxy settings between hub cluster and managed cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps to configure the proxy settings between your hub cluster and managed cluster:
```

. Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with proxy settings. 

> .. See the following configuration with HTTP proxy:

Reviewer 2: It seems like we are missing a step. I was expecting to see a command to create the file and then show the example of on the YAML file might look.

Author: I think the original meaning here was to apply one of the two configs after creating the resource.

I'll switch up the wording a bit to make it clearer.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: http-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "http://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>" 
----
+ 
.. See the following configuration with HTTPS proxy:  
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: https-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "https://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>"
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: "proxy-ca-bundle"
      caBundle:
        name: <configmap-name>
        namespace: <configmap-namespace>
----
+ 
*Note:* A certificate authority (CA) bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. The CA bundle refers to a ConfigMap that contains one or multiple CA certificates. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file

> ----

Reviewer 2: I know that we ask users to run commands in notes sometimes, but it might be best to include the info in the note within the substep. This suggestion aligns with my previous suggest to run a command to create the file and then show the YAML file example

```suggestion
..  A certificate authority (CA) bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. To create a `KlusterConfig` resource for HTTPS proxy where the required certificate authority bundle is defined, run the following command:

 +
 [source,bash]
 ----
oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file
----

+
See the following configuration where the CA bundle refers to a config map that contains one or multiple CA certificates. with HTTPS proxy:  

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: https-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "https://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>"
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: "proxy-ca-bundle"
      caBundle:
        name: <configmap-name>
        namespace: <configmap-namespace>
----

> ----
> 
> . When creating a managed cluster, choose the `KlusterletConfig` resource by adding an annotation that refers to the `KlusterletConfig` resource. See the following example:
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
> kind: ManagedCluster
> metadata:
>   annotations:
>     agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <klusterlet-config-name>
>   name:<managed-cluster-name>
> spec:
>   hubAcceptsClient: true
>   leaseDurationSeconds: 60 
> ----
> + 
> *Notes:*
> +
> * You might need to toggle the YAML view to add the annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource when you operate on the {mce-short} console.
> * You can use a global `KlusterletConfig` to enable the configuration on every managed cluster without using an annotation for binding.

Reviewer 2: YAML not rendering correctly
```suggestion
. When creating a managed cluster, choose the `KlusterletConfig` resource by adding an annotation that refers to the `KlusterletConfig` resource. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: ManagedCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <klusterlet-config-name>
  name:<managed-cluster-name>
spec:
  hubAcceptsClient: true
  leaseDurationSeconds: 60 
----

+ 
*Notes:*
+
* You might need to toggle the YAML view to add the annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource when you operate on the {mce-short} console.
* You can use a global `KlusterletConfig` to enable the configuration on every managed cluster without using an annotation for binding.
```

[#disable-proxy-hub-managed]
== Disabling the proxy between hub cluster and managed cluster

> If your development changes, you might need to disable the HTTP or HTTPS proxy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your development changes, you might need to disable the HTTP or HTTPS proxy. Complete the following steps:
```

. Go to the `ManagedCluster` resource.
. Remove the `agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config` annotation.

[#config-klusterlet-nodes]
== Optional: Configuring the klusterlet to run on specific nodes

> When you create a cluster using {acm}, you can specify which nodes you want to run the managed cluster klusterlet to run on by configuring the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` annotation for the managed cluster. Complete the following steps to configure these settings: 

Reviewer 2: I'm confused here. Is this what you mean? 
```suggestion
When you create a cluster using {acm}, you can specify which nodes you want to run the managed cluster klusterlet by configuring the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` annotation for the managed cluster. Complete the following steps to configure these settings: 
```

> . Select the managed cluster that you want to update from the clusters page in the console. 

Reviewer 2: Suggestion based on IBM Style guide: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-ui#page 

```suggestion
. Select the managed cluster that you want to update from the Clusters page in the console. 
```

> . Set the YAML switch to `On` to view the YAML content.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion based on IBM Style guide: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-ui#switch
```suggestion
. Set the *YAML* switch to *On* to view the YAML content.
```

+
*Note:* The YAML editor is only available when importing or creating a cluster. To edit the managed cluster YAML definition after importing or creating, you must use the {ocp-short} command-line interface or the {acm-short} search feature.

. Add the `nodeSelector` annotation to the managed cluster YAML definition. The key for this annotation is: `open-cluster-management/nodeSelector`. The value of this annotation is a string map with JSON formatting.

. Add the `tolerations` entry to the managed cluster YAML definition. The key of this annotation is: `open-cluster-management/tolerations`. The value of this annotation represents a link:https://github.com/kubernetes/api/blob/release-1.24/core/v1/types.go#L3007[toleration] list with JSON formatting.
The resulting YAML might resemble the following example: 

> +

Reviewer 2: yaml not rendering correctly

Author: Tried to fix it, is this better?

Reviewer 2: Yes!

[#config-proxy-hub-managed]
= Configuring the proxy between hub cluster and managed cluster

To register a managed cluster to your {mce} hub cluster, you need to transport the managed cluster to your {mce-short} hub cluster. Sometimes your managed cluster cannot directly reach your {mce-short} hub cluster. In this instance, configure the proxy settings to allow the communications from the managed cluster to access the {mce-short} hub cluster through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server.

For example, the {mce-short} hub cluster is in a public cloud, and the managed cluster is in a private cloud environment within a firewall-protected network. The communications out of the private cloud can only go through a HTTP or HTTPS proxy server. 

.Prerequisites

- You have an active HTTP or HTTPS proxy server that supports HTTP tunnels. For example, HTTP connect method. 
- You have a manged cluster that can reach the HTTP or HTTPS proxy server, and the proxy server can access the {mce-short} hub cluster. 

Complete the following steps to configure the proxy settings between your hub cluster and managed cluster:

> 
> . Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with either a HTTP or HTTPS proxy configuration.
> 
> .. Apply the following YAML sample to the resource to use a HTTP proxy configuration:
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
> kind: KlusterletConfig
> metadata:
>   name: http-proxy
> spec:
>   hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
>     proxyURL: "http://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>" 
> ----
> 
> ..  A certificate authority (CA) bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. To create a `KlusterConfig` resource for HTTPS proxy where the required certificate authority bundle is defined, run the following command:
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file
> ----
> +
> See the following configuration where the CA bundle refers to a config map that contains one or multiple CA certificates with HTTPS proxy:  
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
> kind: KlusterletConfig
> metadata:
>   name: https-proxy
> spec:
>   hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
>     proxyURL: "https://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>"
>     trustedCABundles:
>     - name: "proxy-ca-bundle"
>       caBundle:
>         name: <configmap-name>
>         namespace: <configmap-namespace>
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Apply the following YAML sample to the resource to use a HTTP proxy configuration:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: http-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "http://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>" 
----

..  A certificate authority (CA) bundle is required for HTTPS proxy. To create a `KlusterConfig` resource for HTTPS proxy where the required certificate authority bundle is defined, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file
----
+
See the following configuration where the CA bundle refers to a config map that contains one or multiple CA certificates with HTTPS proxy:  

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: https-proxy
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    proxyURL: "https://<username>:<password>@<ip>:<port>"
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: "proxy-ca-bundle"
      caBundle:
        name: <configmap-name>
        namespace: <configmap-namespace>
----
```
